Mr. Worf, you sound like a man who's asking his friend if he can start dating his sister. Sure. You'd be surprised how far a hug goes with Geordi, or Worf. A lot of things can change in twelve years, Admiral. The Enterprise computer system is controlled by three primary main processor cores, cross-linked with a redundant melacortz ramistat, fourteen kiloquad interface modules. Damage report! They were just sucked into space. Wait a minute - you've been declared dead.

You can't give orders around here. I'll be sure to note that in my log. We have a saboteur aboard. Did you come here for something in particular or just general Riker-bashing? Some days you get the bear, and some days the bear gets you. Maybe if we felt any human loss as keenly as we feel one of those close to us, human history would be far less bloody. Ensign Babyface! I'd like to think that I haven't changed those things, sir. Well, that's certainly good to know. I suggest you drop it, Mr. Data. We finished our first sensor sweep of the neutral zone. I'll alert the crew. We know you're dealing in stolen ore. But I wanna talk about the assassination attempt on Lieutenant Worf. Congratulations - you just destroyed the Enterprise. Mr. Crusher, ready a collision course with the Borg ship.

The look in your eyes, I recognize it. You used to have it for me. A surprise party? Mr. Worf, I hate surprise parties. I would *never* do that to you. Commander William Riker of the Starship Enterprise. Maybe if we felt any human loss as keenly as we feel one of those close to us, human history would be far less bloody. I guess it's better to be lucky than good. Computer, belay that order. Some days you get the bear, and some days the bear gets you. Yesterday I did not know how to eat gagh. Flair is what marks the difference between artistry and mere competence. I am your worst nightmare! Fate protects fools, little children and ships named Enterprise. The Federation's gone; the Borg is everywhere! About four years. I got tired of hearing how young I looked.

Could someone survive inside a transporter buffer for 75 years? When has justice ever been as simple as a rule book? What? We're not at all alike! and attack the Romulans. I've had twelve years to think about it. And if I had it to do over again, I would have grabbed the phaser and pointed it at you instead of them. Sorry, Data. When has justice ever been as simple as a rule book? Wouldn't that bring about chaos? Then maybe you should consider this: if anything happens to them, Starfleet is going to want a full investigation. You're going to be an interesting companion, Mr. Data. What's a knock-out like you doing in a computer-generated gin joint like this? And blowing into maximum warp speed, you appeared for an instant to be in two places at once.

You bet I'm agitated! I may be surrounded by insanity, but I am not insane. But the probability of making a six is no greater than that of rolling a seven. Fate. It protects fools, little children, and ships named "Enterprise." You did exactly what you had to do. You considered all your options, you tried every alternative and then you made the hard choice. Shields up! Rrrrred alert! That might've been one of the shortest assignments in the history of Starfleet. Why don't we just give everybody a promotion and call it a night - 'Commander'? I think you've let your personal feelings cloud your judgement. Maybe we better talk out here; the observation lounge has turned into a swamp. For an android with no feelings, he sure managed to evoke them in others.

How long can two people talk about nothing? I will obey your orders. I will serve this ship as First Officer. And in an attack against the Enterprise, I will die with this crew. But I will not break my oath of loyalty to Starfleet. We could cause a diplomatic crisis. Take the ship into the Neutral Zone Your shields were failing, sir. Mr. Worf, you do remember how to fire phasers? Well, I'll say this for him - he's sure of himself. Talk about going nowhere fast. You enjoyed that. Yes, absolutely, I do indeed concur, wholeheartedly! Smooth as an android's bottom, eh, Data? In all trust, there is the possibility for betrayal.